## Welcome to my human embryo classifier repository ! NO WE ARE NOT RACIST, we only classify embryos by their growth stage!

This repository represents the work I did as a part of my end-of-year project at the National Institute of Applied Sciences and Technology (INSAT). 
The project was a collaboration between my school and the Aziza Othmana Hospital. The goal was to build a deep learning model trained on image sequences of real human embryos in order to classify each image of each sequence by growth stage 
(3 stages were taken into account in this project). The work is divided to 4 notebook, each serving a particular purpose.

* The notebook "video-preprocessing" covers the preproceesing done on videos of human embryos generated from the time-lapse system. Our work consists identifying the important frames of the video (by analyzing the video annotations) , extracting them and saving them as a folder of JPG files.
* The notebook "sheets-preprocessing" covers the preproceesing done on the excel sheets (also generated by the time-lapse system) in order to extract relevant data and the correct annotations. 
* Finally, the notebooks "custom_cnn" and "vgg" cover the models we trained for the tasks. We used a combination of LSTM and CNNs (one was our own "custom" CNN model while the other used pretrained VGG and transfert learning). We also did some data augmentation to avoid over-fitting.

I definitely enjoyed working on this project under the supervision of Mrs. Wided Miled. It was a VERY interesting project in which I faced plenty of challenges. The only thing I wish I could change in my work is the hardware I used during the project. When this code was written I didn't have access to good hardware ressources so I had to run it on my own laptop and on Google Colab which limited our capacity to train the model thus lowering the performance of our models. If we had access to better hardware, We could have worked on larger models and used more data. As for prospects, I suggest replacing LSTMs with attention-based models like Transfromers, I believe that may provide a significant performance boost. I hope this work will be helpful to someone in the future.
